docs: docling integration (#8939)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Integrations/Docling/integrations-docling.md

---
title: Integrate Docling with Langflow
slug: /integrations-docling
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

Langflow integrates with [Docling](https://docling-project.github.io/docling/) through a suite of components for parsing documents.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install Docling dependency
```

* Install the Docling extra in Langflow OSS with `uv pip install langflow[docling]` or `uv pip install docling`.

>     To add a dependency to Langflow Desktop, add an entry to Docling to the application's `requirements.txt` file.

Author: ```suggestion
    To add a dependency to Langflow Desktop, add an entry for Docling to the application's `requirements.txt` file.
```

>     * On macOS, the file is located at `/Users/<name>/.langflow/data/`.

Author: ```suggestion
    * On macOS, the file is located at `/Users/<name>/.langflow/data/requirements.txt`.
```

>     * On Windows, it can be found at `C:\Users\<name>\AppData\Roaming\com.Langflow\data`.

Author: ```suggestion
    * On Windows, the file is located at `C:\Users\<name>\AppData\Roaming\com.Langflow\data\requirements.txt`.
```

    Add the dependency to `requirements.txt` in the following format:
        ```
        docling==2.40.0
        ```
    Restart Langflow desktop to install the dependency.

> ## Use Docling components in a flow to split a PDF

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use Docling components in a flow

This example demonstrates how to use some Docling components to split a PDF in a flow:

```

    The **Docling** component loads the document, and the **ExportDoclingDocument** component converts the DoclingDocument into the format you select. This example converts the document to Markdown, with images represented as placeholders.
    The **Split Text** component will split the Markdown into chunks for the vector database to store in the next part of the flow.
2. Connect a [**Chroma DB**](/components-vector-stores#chroma-db) component to the **Split text** component's **Chunks** output.
3. Connect an [**Embedding Model**](/components-embedding-model) to Chroma's **Embedding** port, and a **Chat Output** component to view the extracted [DataFrame](/concepts-objects#dataframe).
4. Add your OpenAI API key to the Embedding Model.

The flow looks like this:

![Docling and ExportDoclingDocument extracting and splitting text to vector database](./integrations-docling-split-text.png)

5. Add a file to the **Docling** component.
6. To run the flow, click <Icon name="Play" aria-hidden="true"/> **Playground**.
    The chunked document is loaded as vectors into your vector database.

> ## Docling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Docling components

The following sections describe the purpose and configuration options for each component in the Docling bundle.

### Docling
```

This component uses Docling to process input documents running the Docling models locally.

<details>
<summary>Parameters</summary>

**Inputs**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| files | File | The files to process. |
| pipeline | String | Docling pipeline to use (standard, vlm). |
| ocr_engine | String | OCR engine to use (easyocr, tesserocr, rapidocr, ocrmac). |

**Outputs**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| files | File | The processed files with DoclingDocument data. |

</details>

> ## Docling Serve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Docling Serve
```

This component uses Docling to process input documents connecting to your instance of Docling Serve.

<details>
<summary>Parameters</summary>

**Inputs**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| files | File | The files to process. |
| api_url | String | URL of the Docling Serve instance. |
| max_concurrency | Integer | Maximum number of concurrent requests for the server. |
| max_poll_timeout | Float | Maximum waiting time for the document conversion to complete. |
| api_headers | Dict | Optional dictionary of additional headers required for connecting to Docling Serve. |
| docling_serve_opts | Dict | Optional dictionary of additional options for Docling Serve. |

**Outputs**

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| files | File | The processed files with DoclingDocument data. |

</details>

> ## Chunk DoclingDocument

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Chunk DoclingDocument
```

> This component uses the DocumentDocument chunkers to split the document into chunks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This component uses the DoclingDocument chunkers to split a document into chunks.
```
